To create a Helm Operator, you will use Operator-SDK tool.

**This Lab uses Operator-SDK version v1.1.0. All the commands executed in this course are compatible with the version v1.1.0.**

To check the operator-sdk version execute the below command:

```execute
operator-sdk version
```

This will print a representation of the version of operator-sdk. The output will look something like this:

```output
operator-sdk version: "v1.1.0", commit: "9d27e224efac78fcc9354ece4e43a50eb30ea968", kubernetes version: "v1.18.2", go version: "go1.15 linux/amd64", GOOS: "linux", GOARCH: "amd64"
```
Here you will use the **mvc-db-app** Helm Chart. So you can use the path to the chart in your operator creation command.

Navigate to the home directory. Click on the below command to execute it:

```execute
cd $HOME
```

Create a working directory for the lab exercise by executing below command:

```execute
mkdir $HOME/mvc-db-app-operator
```

Navigate to the working directory by executing the below command:

```execute
cd $HOME/mvc-db-app-operator
```
Execute below command from inside the directory `mvc-db-app-operator` to create helm operator using the helm-chart:

```execute
operator-sdk init mvc-db-app-operator --plugins=helm --helm-chart=../mvc-db-app-helm-chart/mvc-db-app/ --domain=com --group=example --version=v1alpha1 --kind=MvcDb
```

Output of above command will be like below:

```
Created helm-charts/mvc-db-app
Generating RBAC rules
I1125 08:08:33.715157   20834 request.go:621] Throttling request took 1.03721996s, request: GET:https://cxxx-e.us-south.containers.cloud.ibm.com:xxx/apis/operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1?timeout=32s
WARN[0004] The RBAC rules generated in config/rbac/role.yaml are based on the chart's default manifest. Some rules may be missing for resources that are only enabled with custom values, and some existing rules may be overly broad. Double check the rules generated in config/rbac/role.yaml to ensure they meet the operator's permission requirements.
```
***
**NOTE:**
* The `WARNING` above specifies that the ClusterRole defined in `config/rbac/role.yaml` are based on some default manifests.For the operators to work properly you need to add and modify it with your operator's permission requirements.
* For this operator also you will be modifying this file with the required permissions in later section of this guide.
***


Now, let's understand what this command means.
***
* ` operator-sdk  `:  The tool used to create an operator.

* ` init` :  Generates the RBAC rules in config/rbac/role.yaml based on the resources that would be deployed by the chart’s default manifest.

* `--plugins` :  This allows the SDK to know the type of operator.Here `helm` value means its building a Helm based operator.

* `--helm-chart` : To use an existing chart from your local filesystem. Here you will have to provide the path to the existing helm chart `mvc-db-app`. You can also use `--helm-chart-repo` to use remote chart repository.

* `--domain` : This is the domain for the api that gets created. 

* `--group `: This is the group that will be associated with the created api.

* `--version `: This is the version associated with the created api.

* `--kind `: This is the kind of CRD(**C**ustom **R**esource **D**efinition) or in more simple words, the kind of object. It can be any anything. As a MVC-DB application is used for deployment purpose, CRD is named as MvcDb. This value is also used (in lowercase) to name all the generated operator manifests and helm chart when the project is created.

##Review Folder Structure##

Above command will scaffold the operator with required resources, view directory structure using below command:

```execute
tree $HOME/mvc-db-app-operator/
```

```
mvc-db-app-operator/
├── config
│   ├── crd
│   │   ├── bases
│   │   │   └── example.com_mvcdbs.yaml
│   │   └── kustomization.yaml
│   ├── default
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── manager_auth_proxy_patch.yaml
│   ├── manager
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── manager.yaml
│   ├── prometheus
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── monitor.yaml
│   ├── rbac
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_client_clusterrole.yaml
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_role_binding.yaml
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_role.yaml
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_service.yaml
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   ├── leader_election_role_binding.yaml
│   │   ├── leader_election_role.yaml
│   │   ├── mvcdb_editor_role.yaml
│   │   ├── mvcdb_viewer_role.yaml
│   │   ├── role_binding.yaml
│   │   └── role.yaml
│   ├── samples
│   │   ├── example_v1alpha1_mvcdb.yaml
│   │   └── kustomization.yaml
│   └── scorecard
│       ├── bases
│       │   └── config.yaml
│       ├── kustomization.yaml
│       └── patches
│           ├── basic.config.yaml
│           └── olm.config.yaml
├── Dockerfile
├── helm-charts
│   └── mvc-db-app
│       ├── charts
│       │   └── mongodb-0.1.0.tgz
│       ├── Chart.yaml
│       ├── templates
│       │   ├── guestbook-backend-deployment.yaml
│       │   ├── guestbook-backend-route.yaml
│       │   ├── guestbook-backend-service.yaml
│       │   ├── guestbook-frontend-deployment.yaml
│       │   ├── guestbook-frontend-route.yaml
│       │   └── guestbook-frontend-service.yaml
│       └── values.yaml
├── Makefile
├── PROJECT
└── watches.yaml

15 directories, 38 files
```

The operator-sdk scaffolds the above set of files and directories, which are described below:

1. `config `: Contains kustomize manifests for deploying this operator on a Kubernetes cluster.
* **config/crd/bases** : Contains CRD manifests for your custom resources with Group, Kind, Version.
* **config/default/manager_auth_proxy_patch.yaml** : Contains a controller manager patch that injects a sidecar container which is a HTTP proxy for the controller manager.It performs RBAC authorization against the Kubernetes API.
* **config/manager/manager.yaml** : Contains Controller manifest.Used to create your operator.
* **config/prometheus** : Contains the ServiceMonitor resource for monitoring the operator.In this operator you need not modify anything in this folder as monitoring of operator is not covered in this guide.
* **config/rbac/** : Contains RBAC manifests.
* **config/rbac/role.yaml** : Defines ClusterRoles as permission for the resources your operator service account can access.
* **config/rbac/role_binding.yaml** : Binds your ClusterRoles with serviceaccount.
* **config/samples** : Contains CR manifests or in simple words, a sample Custom Resource.
* **config/testing** : Contains some sample configurations for scorecard testing.You need not modify anything in this file as well.

2. `Dockerfile `: Used to build the operator image with `make docker-build`.

3. `helm-charts/ `: Your helm chart that will be triggered for respective CR created for the defined CRD is in helm-charts/ 

4. `Makefile `: Contains helpful targets for build, test, and deployment, and to give you flexibility to tailor things to your project’s needs.

5. `PROJECT `: Contains meta information about the project.

6. `watches.yaml `: Contains Object's definition that watches CR of a particular Group, Kind, Version and states which chart to invoke when an object of mentioned group, kind, version is created is in watches.yaml

**Note** The CR spec(in `config/samples` ) is automatically populated with key-value from your charts values.yaml(`helm-charts/mvc-db-app/values.yaml`).
