Now, let's understand the components of the Helm Chart.
```
mvc-db-app
├── charts
│   └── mongodb
│       ├── charts
│       ├── Chart.yaml
│       ├── templates
│       │   ├── mongodb-deployment.yaml
│       │   ├── mongodb-pvc.yaml
│       │   ├── mongodb-secret.yaml
│       │   └── mongodb-service.yaml
│       └── values.yaml
├── Chart.yaml
├── templates
│   ├── guestbook-backend-deployment.yaml
│   ├── guestbook-backend-route.yaml
│   ├── guestbook-backend-service.yaml
│   ├── guestbook-frontend-deployment.yaml
│   ├── guestbook-frontend-route.yaml
│   └── guestbook-frontend-service.yaml
└── values.yaml
```
* <strong>mvc-db-app/</strong> : The chart name.
  
  * <strong>charts/</strong>: A directory containing any charts upon which this chart depends.
  
  * <strong>Chart.yaml</strong>: A YAML file containing information about the chart.

  * <strong>templates/</strong>: A directory of templates that, when combined with values, will generate valid Kubernetes manifest files.  

  * <strong>values.yaml</strong>: The default configuration values for this chart.
  
 
  
Helm reserves use of the charts/ and templates/ directories.Other files will be left as they are.

***

**Note:**
* The most important piece of the puzzle is the ```templates/``` directory. 
* This is where Helm finds the YAML definitions for your Services, Deployments and other Kubernetes objects. 
* If you already have the ```yaml``` definitions to create the Kubernetes objects for your application deployment, all you need to do is replace the ```yaml``` files inside ```templates/``` with your contents. Also ```values.yaml``` need to be update accordingly.

***

Here for our application, we have mainly three parts.
1. MongoDB
2. GuestBook Frontend
3. GuestBook Backend

**MongoDB**
The dependency chart(`charts/mongodb`) resolvs all dependencies of the chart.
* It creates a MongoDB Deployment and Service
* It creates a PVC to retain the Guestbook entries

**GuestBook Frontend**
* It provides a deployment,service and its route to access a simple frontend of Guestbook application.

**GuestBook Backend**
* It provides a deployment,service and its route to access the backend status of Guestbook application.

