The Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform (OCP) provides pod security policies using SecurityContextConstraints (SCC) resources. SCCs control the actions that a pod can perform and what it has the ability to access.

* OpenShift provides mainly 8 predefined Security Context Constraints that you can list using the `oc get scc` command.
* By default, stand-alone OCP uses the SecurityContextConstraints named restrictedSCC.
SCC

Following is a brief description of these SCCs:

* **Restricted** : restricted denies access to all host features and requires pods to be run with a UID, and SELinux context that are allocated to the namespace. This is the most restrictive SCC and it is used by default for authenticated users.
In other words this is the most secure one.

* **anyuid** :anyuid provides all features of the restricted SCC but allows users to run with any UID and any GID.
In platforms such as kubernetes and OpenShift this will be the equivalent as allowing UID 0, or root user, both inside and outside the container.

* **nonroot** :nonroot provides all features of the restricted SCC but allows users to run with any non-root UID. The user must specify the UID or it must be specified on the manifest of the container runtime.
Applications that need predictable non root UIDs with the same other restricted SCC security features can use this SCC as long as they inform the UID in their manifest.

* **hostmount-anyuid** :hostmount-anyuid provides all the features of the restricted SCC but allows host mounts and any UID by a pod. This is primarily used by the persistent volume recycler. WARNING: this SCC allows host file system access as any UID, including UID 0. Grant with caution.
Same warnings as anyuid but here it goes a bit further and allows mounting host volumes as well.

* **hostnetwork** :hostnetwork allows using host networking and host ports but still requires pods to be run with a UID and SELinux context that are allocated to the namespace.
Here the pod/container will be able to "see and use" the host network stack directly. Non zero UID and pre-allocated SELinux context will help to put another layer of security.

* **node-exporter** :node-exporter scc is used for the Prometheus node exporter.
The node-exporter was designed for Prometheus to retrieve metrics from the cluster. It allows access to the host network, host PIDS, and host volumes, but not host IPC. Also allows anyuid. Not to be used by another application.

* **hostaccess** :hostaccess allows access to all host namespaces but still requires pods to be run with a UID and SELinux context that are allocated to the namespace. This SCC allows host access to namespaces, file systems, and PIDS. It should only be used by trusted pods. Grant with caution.
Host namespaces, in the description, mean outside the pod or container namespaces or, yet, we can call it node or root Linux namespaces. It is true that restricting UID and using SELinux will put a layer of security to protect the node. But still, it's a very relaxed SCC and should be used only by absolutely necessary trusted workloads.

* **Privileged** :privileged allows access to all privileged and host features and the ability to run as any user, any group, any fsGroup, and with any SELinux context.This is the most relaxed SCC and should be used only for cluster administration.
This scc allows a pod/container to control everything in the host/worker nodes or even in other containers. It's the most privileged and relaxed SCC policy. Only trusted workloads should use this and a discussion if it should be used in production or not is valid. A privileged pod can control the host completely.