The upcoming lab exercises would need an Operator project generated using the Operator SDK version 1. 

To build a Helm Operator based on an existing Helm Chart, the chart needs to be present locally and need to have the location path.  

In this example we will be using an existing flask-app Helm Chart to deploy a multi-image application containing Flask and Vue on Cluster.

Navigate to the home directory. Click on the below command to execute it:

```execute
cd ~
```

Create a directory for the lab exercise for storing the helm charts by executing below command:

```execute
mkdir charts
```

Navigate to the directory by executing the below command:

```execute
cd charts
```

Clone the Helm Chart by executing the below command:

```execute
git clone https://github.com/rhm-samples/helm-charts.git
```

Here we have used the flask-app Helm Chart. So remaining Charts can be removed.

Navigate to the home directory. Click on the below command to execute it:

```execute
cd ~
```

Create a working directory for the lab exercise by executing below command:

```execute
mkdir flask-operator
```

Navigate to the working directory by executing the below command:

```execute
cd flask-operator
```

Create a new project using the operator-sdk and get the location of the Helm Chart 

```execute
operator-sdk init flask-operator --plugins=helm --helm-chart=../charts/helm-charts/flask-app/ --domain=com --group=example --version=v1alpha1 --kind=Flask
```

## Command review:

* ` operator-sdk  `:  The tool used to create an operator.
* ` init` :  generates the RBAC rules in config/rbac/role.yaml based on the resources that would be deployed by the chart’s default manifest.
* `--plugins` : helm this allows the SDK to know its building an operator based on a helm chart
* `--helm-chart` : to use an existing chart from your local filesystem ( can also use --helm-chart-repo to use remote chart repository).
* `--domain` : this is the domain for the api that gets created 
* `--group `: this is the group that will be associated with the created api
* `--version `: this is the version associated with the created api
* `--kind `: This is the kind of CRD(Custom Resource Definition) or in more simple words, the kind of object. It can be any anything. As a Flask application is used for deployment purpose, CRD is named as Flask. This value is also used (in lowercase) to name all the generated operator manifests and helm chart when the project is created.
